OK, it's official. My daughter is done with preschool. And in the fall she will be going to kindergarten. (Enter all the sad crying emojis). Seriously though, where did the time go?

Before she starts kindergarten, we have a ton of free time at home this summer'so what are we going to do?

A friend of mine and I were talking a few weeks ago about setting up a weekly play date throughout the summer. The only 'catch' is, each week, we will have a different play based learning activity for the kiddos. When we made this plan, I started wracking my brain about what we could possibly do, and honestly, I started to stress out a little. Play based learning activities, while I love them, are not my forte. Lucky for me, I have some amazing mommy blogger friends that just published an incredible ebook that is exactly what I need for these weekly playdates.

The book is called 'The Undeniable Power of Play,' written by Alana from Parenting from the Heart, Katie from Views from a Stepstool, and Susie from Twitchetts.

This is a fantastic ebook that lays out the undeniable power of play! So many fun activities for the kiddos to learn and have fun!

So now I have all the knowledge of play based learning of these three incredible mamas. And they are going to hold my hand throughout the entire summer!

For each activity, they have clear instructions on materials needed and directions. And not just basic directions. They have alternate ways to play for each activity and they explain how you can adapt each one to different ages. Which is fantastic for me because my 4 year old certainly explores things differently than my 2 year old.

Fill up your summer with some fun, play based learning activities from The Undeniable Power of Play.

"Not only is it an incredible source of fun and socialization, play is crucial to children's learning and development. Their intellectual, physical, and social-emotional abilities emerge and are strengthened through play."

Undeniable Power of Play

The only decision I have to make now is which activity to do first. Should we start from the beginning of the book and just make our way through? Or should we bounce around all summer? Either way, I am so excited to get started with my littles, because not only will they be learning a ton through these activities, but they'll be having a blast doing it!

I couldn't wait for the first play date so the other day my girl and I made some baking soda art.

The Undeniable Power of Play is a book full of 101 Tips, Activities, and Play Based Learning Strategies for you child.What I love about this one (and MANY of the other activities included),  is that I have all the supplies at my house already. I found the activity, grabbed the stuff, and in less than ten minutes she was learning about colors, chemical reactions, and she was having fun!The Undeniable Power of Play is a book full of 101 Tips, Activities and Play-Based Learning Strategies to Engage Your Child.
